hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
another China history podcast all 96
episodes are available at China history
podcast calm and via a multitude of
aggregators that listeners with
discriminating tastes used to download
from two episodes ago we were in the
15th century during the Ming Dynasty
then last time we went back a few
hundred more years to the period of the
southern Song 12th century China today
we go back even further to the fourth
century AD to the eastern Qin Dynasty
this is another Qin Dynasty from the
Jurchens of the last episode the
character Jin fourth town for this
dynasty ji M this is a different Chinese
character than the church in Qin Dynasty
of UFA is time I featured the eastern
jin in episode CHP 22 we had the Western
Jin and the eastern jin just like the jo
han and Song dynasties the Jin is broken
up into two parts Western Jin founded by
Simha yen who reigned as Jin woo D his
brief dynasty ran from 265 to 318 they
were kicked out of law and by the Xiong
nu and that ancient capital was sacked
along with Chang An in 316 so the Jin
dynasty was reconstituted down in the
south in Jin Cong which we know today is
Nanjing the eastern Jin didn't last long
either falling in 422 the victorious
general Vo you whose northern expedition
between 409 and 416 won back most of the
land south of the Yellow River including
law young he puts an end to the eastern
jin after barely a hundred years of
existence Leo you we discussed in CHP 22
he went on to found the Leo Song Dynasty
and amidst all this fighting and
disunity in China comes today's topic
Wang XI Chi born exactly eight hundred
years before UFA in 303 ad Wang XI chair
was born at a very bad time for the gym
they were only eight years away from
getting chased out of the capital and
lawyer Wang XI choose greatness was a
during the eastern gym so like UFA whose
life straddled the northern and southern
song one features life also witnessed
the fall and rise of a dynasty the Jin
just a quick refresher founded by Simeon
grandson of Samui herbs Holloway state
this was the northernmost of the three
kingdoms this was the land of Tata and
his family sim again overthrows them and
establishes the Western Jing he's the
guy if you recall from the episode who
had ten thousand concubines at his beck
and call
who's a man of great excesses semi en
was he was the Qin Emperor Wu Jin wildy
he founds the Jin unifies China and and
blows it all later on and we conclude
the Western Jin with the sad and tragic
tale of the Emperor mean who had the
misfortune of being the one raining when
the show knew of the hongchul state came
roaring in the honcho stayed being one
of the sixteen kingdoms that took over
the north after the Xiang Yu and the
four other tribes take control of the
North China Heartland Samar a of the
semi family the Jean founding family he
sets up the new Jean government in Jin
Cong what I as I said present-day
Nanjing and he reigns as genuine D from
317 to 323 and if you remember I'll say
it again is it's important to know so
horrific was it for the Han Chinese of
the North under the yoke of these
northern barbarians during the sixteen
kingdoms period both common people and
the aristocratic elites started to flee
unmask to the south of China not only
Han Chinese but show-nu as well these
were the first major migrations to the
south of these what's known as guests
people or Hakka could Jian Ren so into
this unsettled time the subject of our
topic one she chair was born he lived
from 303 to 361 so I said his life
straddled the reigns of three Western
Jin emperors and five from the eastern
jin mist
right away these Emperor's never rained
for too long and it's a point of
reference this is the time of the Sasana
Empire in Persia Constantine the Great
and Constantinople Byzantine Empire was
just getting underway Christianity had
found its way to Britain right around
now and in India this was the start of
the Gupta Empire one teacher was already
a 22 year old prodigy of his day
climbing his way up the ladder when a
crowd of religious men gathered together
in Nicaea in 325 to participate in the
first ecumenical council why do we
feature one she chair what's his
significance
he's China's greatest calligrapher
that's why this is generally agreed by
all educated people familiar with this
art China's greatest calligrapher and
there are hundreds and hundreds who have
been revered in their works treasured
throughout history and down to this
present day but one sheet jerk comes to
mind whenever the a position greatest
calligrapher of China is used
we have calligraphy of course in English
as well other languages too but Chinese
especial Chinese isn't limited to 26
letters that he could write and you know
all kinds of beautiful and aesthetically
pleasing ways Chinese with the
pictograms that evolved into the Chinese
characters we know today this was what
calligraphy was invented for the art of
writing Chinese characters in this
traditional method using the four
treasures that any aristocratic man or
woman would have in their possession was
the highest possible expression of one's
character some say you are what you eat
in China back in the day your
calligraphy could tell almost anyone
everything that was to know about you
the personality character moral worth
and emotion of any highborn educated
fourth century aristocrat could be
manifested in the way they handled a
brush on paper by the Tang Dynasty how
you handle the brush determine where you
were slotted in the civil service
bureaucracy that was what mattered most
this was an art that was entirely
practiced and enjoyed by the elites of
China
firstly he had to be literate and in
fourth century China that wasn't so
common outside aristocratic circles this
was an interesting time the period one
teacher was born into it had been about
300 years since typhoon invented his
paper making process around 100 AD so
around the time of Wong's teacher
papermaking had become quite developed
and the economics had been worked out by
then for writing with a brush nothing
made a better substrate than paper
up until now Chinese have been writing
on silk or on bamboo and other materials
but now with paper the four treasures of
the study
could be used to their maximum effect in
a thousand subtleties could be expressed
like only these guys knew how to do
these four treasures that have spoken of
the wen Fong football where the brush
ink paper and ink stone be more juror
yen so one sheet you lived in the age
when paper had just come into its own
and just as printing busted things wide
open as far as allowing people to read
so did paper have the same effect on the
written word during the eastern Jing
woodblock printing was still hundreds of
years away
so once paper became perfected to the
point where you know it could be used by
more than just the emperor it created
the first mini revolution in all kinds
of ways literature record-keeping and
administration communication education
you know and of course with respect to
calligraphy only one bad thing paper
decomposes after time especially if it's
high in acid and lignin we can even see
how paper fades over the period of our
own lifetime imagine a thousand years so
sad to say nothing at all of the 1000
calligraphic works of wang shi qu exists
today no one has a single piece of
anything he ever did with his own hand
at least Wang XI chair was a southerner
from a rich aristocratic literary
family that is to say that came from a
long line of scholars who worked for the
imperial court the various functions
born in the year 303 in the city of
shaoxing a city that keeps on showing up
in our podcast Xiao Jing and judge Yong
province right between Ningbo and
Hangzhou his life will forever be
associated with that city and the orchid
pavilion that fabled place where poets
calligraphers and other distinguished
literati of the day would hang out
together compose poems drink wine
exhibit their calligraphy say witty
things around each other and enjoy the
life that a southern aristocratic
gentleman enjoyed Wang XI chair came
from a long line of respected
calligrapher so he wasn't the first in
his family to shine the Wong family were
well known and held in very high esteem
by society of the 100 noted
calligraphers of their day during the
gym period 20 came from the Wong clan as
it was expected 1 XI chair had to rise
up the cursus honorum just like any
Roman official might have done there was
an established road that one followed as
far as education and the path one would
follow to reach the heights of success
he served first as an official but in
time found it not to his taste since he
had a lot of money and wanted for
nothing one she did what a lot of people
sometimes do when they have too much
money he became a Rekluse and he spent
all his time practicing calligraphy and
developing this style of his that would
change the way people wrote Chinese
characters to this day as I said nothing
survives today from the time of Wan XI
cheer if that's true are we taking
others words for it or do we know what
his calligraphy looked like the thing to
do back in the day was to make copies of
masters and to practice it over and over
and over so thanks to this practice of
always copying the Masters although
nothing from long she chairs hands
survives to this day
we still know what his writing looked
like there are 12 or so copies or copies
of copies of one's teachers calligraphy
that him survived to this day it's often
said that behind every great man is
woman and in one sheeters case this was
most true although it was his esteemed
father a noted calligrapher himself who
first taught his son the art the teacher
who history has credited with the most
influence on Wang XI chair is none other
than his father's cousin Madame Wei Wei
sha also known in the history books as
lady way she lived from 272 to 349 and
was herself considered the ear to the
style of the greatest calligrapher up
till that time Jeong Yeol also known as
Joan Yao he came out of the end of the
eastern Han and into the Three Kingdoms
period serving as an official in the
state of tal way and before Joan Yao
there was the venerable tae-yong also of
the eastern Han so the list goes on over
the centuries the crude Chinese
characters of the Shang Joel and Han now
morphed into newer forms of scripts and
each of these scripts would be blown out
with hundreds of styles and variations
and subtleties that distinguished
certain calligraphers and made them
immortal I'll give you the 10-cent intro
to Chinese script styles
everyone knows Chinese characters
evolved over time prior to these Bronze
Age dynasties who also had the jakku one
or Oracle bone script this was how they
used to write in the Shang Dynasty 1675
to 1046 BC first to make a great
contribution was the illustrious and
infamous prime minister who served
China's first emperor Qin sure why this
was Lisa he came up with the
standardized small seal script this was
introduced during the Qin period and
then further developed and stylized
during the Jo dynasty the seal script
was the gold standard until this flatter
and wider looking
script followed that was the next great
development of Chinese writing this came
during the time of the Han Dynasty that
followed the Qin as the name suggests
this new clerical script was mainly
developed for use in record-keeping and
administration frankly most of these
archaic scripts aren't easy to read and
most people can't recognize a lot of
them during this time Jo and Han Dynasty
the Chinese characters we all know and
love today have quite evolved yet these
are the ones you see carved into these
ancient relics and it's all these bronze
vessels and dings from the Jo period
it's always a fun game to play with my
Chinese comrades when we encounter some
ancient scroll or stone rubbing or
whatever that's written in these Jo and
Han Dynasty scripts from 2000 years ago
we look at these ancient characters and
try to guess you know what they are some
characters of course are quite simple
and you can know what they are no matter
ancient or modern but most you really
have to know your characters but up to
this time the whole idea of Chinese
characters as an art form had not yet
developed the third major form of script
is the running script it's called
running script because like cursive the
characters are not written stroke by
stroke but is a running movement of the
brush without lifting it off the paper
well actually that's the grass script
the fourth kind of Chinese script style
running script was also known as semi
cursive script and grass script is known
as cursive with the semi cursive running
script you might lift your brush off the
paper to finish a character but with the
curse of grass script this is pure
Chinese writing with short cuts that
allowed you to write any Chinese
character without lifting the brush from
the paper until the character is fully
written this is very hard to read and I
could hardly read anything written in
cursive
this grass script a running script this
is generally what you'll see in the
everyday world of jotting stuff down in
Chinese not me of course I sought to
write it in the Reg
script when I first began learning these
characters of course it was a real
struggle there's no way to learn it
except by pure memorization and writing
them over and over then early on after I
went to China for the first time in 1980
I discovered everyday people in their
daily life wrote their characters using
this completely unrecognisable kind of
cursive and semi cursive this made me
quite dejected as I was barely learning
the characters as they're printed in a
book or wherever and now most Chinese in
their daily life of writing in China
use a form of cursive I got over this
despair and could read a little now
can't write that way though the last
script to develop is the regular script
and this is where lady Wei and once she
chair enter our story I guess you could
say they took this script to such great
heights that pretty much in our time
this is how Chinese write their written
language
it was Lady Wei who gave us the eight
principles of Yong this was known as the
young Tsubasa I myself when I was
studying Chinese in college was taught
lady ways eight principles of young and
my calligraphy teacher mr. Chang
hammered it into me each week I spent a
whole semester writing just one single
character nothing more the character
young third tone means forever you see
this character a lot tattooed on
people's bodies the special thing about
this character that lady Wei taught was
that contained within this one single
character were all eight of the common
strokes used in the regular script now I
won't get into the details because
Nautilus you know Chinese does this mean
anything but suffice to say to write
almost any Chinese character you would
use a combination of these eight main
strokes so by mastering this one single
Chinese character young you can apply
this technique to write almost any
character you can spend hours and days
and week
practicing is one single character it
looks easy it isn't the other thing we
know lady wave force her one thousand
character long treatise known as the
illustrated formation of the writing
brush the beach on tool
this was the Primmer used by generations
of budding calligraphers to hone their
skill in this treatise lady Wei explains
about the usage of the four treasures
that I named as well as how to adopt the
right posture and how to use a brush
correctly back in those days for women
there was a four inch thick bulletproof
glass ceiling that could not be broken
no matter what so it's unknown whether
we should be singing the praises of wage
fall over one teacher obviously her
prospects and for century China were
limited compared to someone like one
sheet one sheet your dedicated his
entire life to calligraphy he traveled
to the north of China and his younger
days to meet with the popular
calligraphers of the day and over time
he developed a radically new grass
script this was seen as a great
departure from the standard way of
writing that had been around since the
Jo and Han dynasties it's commonplace
today in shopkeepers and fish mantras
today use a crude grass strip but back
in the fourth century this was
revolutionary it was one of those things
where after a while the aristocrats and
officials wondered how they ever lived
without it
one teacher has many claims to fame
another one is that he was the father
and personal trainer of wangcheng sure
one teacher Wong ginger this
father-and-son team with the teachings
of lady Wei Shah and one teachers father
these four had a major impact on how
Chinese characters were written forever
after and their calligraphy is admired
above all by the greatest connoisseurs
in Asia and you cannot believe how many
deadly serious collectors and
connoisseurs of Chinese calligraphy are
spread out across the far east you know
let alone the whole world one shin tear
in his own lifetime surpassed his
esteemed and revered father as far as
who was the greatest calligrapher of his
day for the next three four hundred
years it was Wong ginger who was
mentioned before Wong's teacher but
we'll see come the Tong dynasty one
sheeter is a very powerful and
magnificent admirer in mr. Lee Sherman
aka the tight song emperor one ginger no
doubt had an excellent trainer and his
father but his greatness lies on taking
his father's achievement in developing
the script that was in between the
cursive and the running scripts and this
was called the running cursive script
over the period of the next few
centuries during the period of the
southern and northern dynasties and
into the sway the admiration and
glorification of these fourth century
calligraphers really took off by the
time of the Tong dynasty 618 to 907 Wang
XI Jers name had attained a cult-like
status though nothing from any of these
Jin dynasty calligraphy masters survives
to this day there are copies and copies
of copies these copies are pretty
faithful to the original so although
thanks to mother nature and father time
the works of these great Qin Dynasty
calligraphers like one's teacher Wang
Shi injure lady Wei haven't survived
enough people kept their work alive by
meticulously copying the originals these
copies of the great masters were all the
rage during the Tang Dynasty there was
quite a trade in these works by the
Masters and as you'd expect there was
also quite a thriving business and
forgeries and fakes the elites of Tang
Dynasty aristocratic Society would
collect these copies of the Masters not
only in China but in Japan and Korea as
well as in Vietnam the fame and
reputation of one sheet chairs spread
far and wide this is a special
true in Japan where one teacher's name
is respected above all other Chinese
calligraphers so it's really in the Tang
Dynasty that one sheeters name and
reputation was raised to the great
heights that we view him today he and
his son were referred to as the two
Wong's they really attained cult-like
status some believe the two ones were
too good students of calligraphy were
sometimes worn by their masters not to
be too perfect like Wong sheets years
since the greatness of the calligraphy
might diminish the literary significance
of what they were writing during the
Tong the regular script developed by
Wang feature became the standardized
script of the day and my friends it's
been that way ever since
Emperor tongue-tied zone arguably one of
the greatest of China's Emperor's sent
emissaries to a monk named bian sy and
tried repeatedly to obtain his copy of
this greatest of Wong's teacher's
surviving works for the Emperor had
learned that this monk had come into
possession of a Wang seizure original
and the story goes on how his censer
shall ye was finally sent to meet with
this monk and how he tricked the monk
been Sai is one of the great old legends
of the Tang Dynasty and when he passed
from this world in 649 the tight zone
Emperor willed that he be buried with
his most treasured possession his copy
of one sheet Jers signature work the 353
ad masterpiece orchid pavilion preface
and when word spread far and wide that
the great tides own Emperor asked to be
buried with this work the boost to one
sheeters place in Chinese history was
assured forever and this preface to the
collection of orchid pavilion poems the
Montaigne jishu was a compilation of 37
poems in all they were written in the
year 353 where one day 42 literati
including Wang XI jure met at this
magical Pavilion in Xiao Qing
here in these works composed in this
idyllic natural surrounding the linkage
was first made between Jones's taoist
philosophies and the beautiful
landscapes beloved of poets painters and
calligraphers this busted opened the
whole nature poetry movement to China
along the banks of winding creeks these
men played their drinking games at this
orchid pavilion and 26 of the 42
gathered there wrote these poems they
were compiled into a single work and
Wang Shi Jie wrote the preface in his
semi cursive calligraphic and three
hundred and twenty four characters in
twenty eight lines and he revolutionized
how Chinese ever after woodall
write their characters of those three
hundred and twenty four characters one
of them cheer the same jeer as in one
feature this common character appears 20
times in his preface and that a single
one is written alike it's truly one of
the Chinese nation's most sacred of
sacred relics you can see a copy hanging
in the guqin in the forbidden city of
beijing so that's it for the true shun
the sage of calligraphy you know the
copy of Wong's teachers work sold
recently at auction this was in November
2010 was a copy of Wong's work for lines
of characters written on a silk scroll
during the Tong dynasty it sold for 308
million RMB in dollars that amounted to
46 million u.s. or 29 million pounds
sterling for 46 million I'm betting that
was not just any ordinary copy this one
had quite a halfway decent provenance
being faithfully handed down along a
chain of very serious collectors going
back to the UN Dynasty so I guess that's
going to be it for this little intro
into the world of Wang XI chair in
Chinese calligraphy it's not an easy
subject to discuss because you know like
all fine arts there's no easy way to
teach
explain it so he's a guy worth knowing
about
certainly all who go through the Chinese
school system are taught about him
it's a pity his name isn't one of those
easy to say ones she qu x i zhi ouch
that X and Zhi jeered sound absolute
killers if you haven't studied Mandarin
this is our 96 show our my royal again I
have my friend mr. Ray Harris jr. coming
out tomorrow he's nice enough to be
flying in for my big Hunter's Show
extravaganza I thought by now I'd be on
number 100 but things didn't work out
that way so ray will be here in time for
the 97th episode which I'll upload after
my 99th I remember last year was in Hong
Kong at the time listening to Mike
Duncan's hunter's history of Rome
episode that was very nice and I said if
the day ever comes when I make it to a
hundred episodes I'm gonna have to do
the same thing as Mike Duncan that's it
ladies and gentlemen I thank you once
again as the great one in Kansas City
says I hope you enjoyed that I've got a
couple emails asking when we're gonna go
back to modern times that's coming
trying to think of one more good one
from the ancient days happy Labor Day to
all my fellow American skis wherever you
are in the world
think about the working people and
everything they've done for us
this is Lazlo Montgomery signing off
from baking hot and always sunny
Southern California wishing you all the
very best and I hope you'll join us next
week for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast